Document what public API means (#35715)
JuliaLang/julia: doc/src/manual/faq.md

On the other hand, language *interoperability* is extremely useful: we want to exploit existing high-quality code in other languages from Julia (and vice versa)!  The best way to enable this is not a transpiler, but rather via easy inter-language calling facilities.  We have worked hard on this, from the built-in `ccall` intrinsic (to call C and Fortran libraries) to [JuliaInterop](https://github.com/JuliaInterop) packages that connect Julia to Python, Matlab, C++, and more.

## [Public API](@id man-api)

> ### How does Julia declare public API?

Reviewer: "How does Julie define its public API?"

The only interfaces that are stable with respect to [SemVer](https://semver.org/) of `julia`
version are the Julia `Base` and standard libraries interfaces described in
[the documentation](https://docs.julialang.org/) and not explicitly marked as non-stable.

> Functions, types, and constants are not part of the public API if they are not included in
> the documentation, _even if they have docstrings_.

Author: @stev47 I think using the word "non-internal" to mean "public" is fine.  I'd just say that functions that are not prefixed by `_` are not necessarily public.  But what I've written already implies that

https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/blob/85752db3461153fffcdd522ebe7ee904e42898e5/doc/src/base/base.md#L18-L20

Is it unclear from this description?

Or maybe adding this in the FAQ helps?

```suggestion
Functions, types, and constants are not part of the public API if they are not included in
the documentation, _even if they have docstrings or not starting with `_`_.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, maybe "... , irrespective of their docstring and irrespective of whether their names are marked as internal with a leading underscore (`_foo`) or not"

On a sidenote: will there be an official API to query whether a name is considered public or not?

Author: I'd say "internal" is exactly the complement of "public". So "marked as internal with a leading underscore" does not make much sense; _not documenting as stable API_ is the only way to mark anything internal.

Starting with `_` is not really anything to do with public API or not.  It's just that it's used commonly for messaging "you _really_ don't want to touch this" unless documented otherwise.

But it's totally OK to use it in public API (although I guess it's not used in Base/stdlib, other than `__init__`?).  But you can find the use case elsewhere.  For example, [`OnlineStatsBase._fit!`](https://github.com/joshday/OnlineStatsBase.jl) is a public API. As you can see, these function names tend to be used as "mostly overload only" API; but they are still public.

### There is a useful undocumented function/type/constant. Can I use it?

> Please open an [issue](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/issues) or
> [pull request](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/pulls) to start a discussion for turning it
> into a public API before relying on it.

Author: @StefanKarpinski Do you mean this part?  What do you think about rephrasing it to something like this?

```suggestion
Updating Julia may break your code if you use non-public API.  If the code is
self-contained, it may be a good idea to copy it into your project.  If you want to rely on
a complex non-public API, especially when using it from a stable package, it is a good idea
to open an [issue](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/issues) or
[pull request](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/pulls) to start a discussion for turning it
into a public API.
```

Author: Maybe also add something like

> However, we do not discourage the attempt to create packages that expose stable public interfaces while relying on non-public implementation details of `julia` and buffering the differences across different `julia` versions.

?

Reviewer 3: Yes I think something like this would be a reasonable improvement.

Often it's unavoidable for packages to rely on implementation detail of `Base` if they want to make progress *right now* rather than in some fantasy future version of Julia. I think it's great to allow people with high risk tolerance to experiment in this way.

We just need to be extremely clear that such code will rapidly cease to work in the absence of a maintainer. (Hmm, interesting feature would be to automatically report on the private bindings a package uses as a measure of maintainability - to go along with things such as testing, code coverage and documentation. Too bad this isn't formally expressed in the code in some way.)
